The distinction between being 'alone' and being 'lonely' has been discussed far too many times.
The debate continues, but we can agree about one thing-being alone is not something society likes.
So the question is..Are we truly alone?

When you see a flock of birds flying off into the sunset, do you feel like soaring away, or do you want to stand and admire the setting sun?
Does the lilting breeze through the branches of trees make you want to grab your hat for a siesta under the shady tree?
Do the sparkling stars make you wonder about the expanse of the universe?

The depths of our own oceans are unexplored wonders while mankind is looking for signs of life elsewhere.
So the question 'Are we truly alone?' arises again and we realise that it's more of a spiritual question than a physical one.
An individual can feel 'alone' in a vast sea of people. Similarly, a person can feel safe amongst a handful of trusted associates.

There is an undeniable symmetry in nature. As a race, we are not alone. 
The plethora of living organisms on earth are there to complement each other for harmonious existence.
Even then, we humans have managed to isolate our needs over the needs of the other races and are forlorn amongst our own brethren.
We seem to have waged a war on each other, while completely ignoring every other element of life.
I'd like to argue that we are not truly alone. 
But sometimes, it is our ideas that make us stand alone.

Standing alone for something you believe in is not 'being alone'. Instead it is an act of self-awareness.
You are not alone, you are more evolved and connected with certain aspects that others may not be currently aware of.
The act of standing up for what you want gives a person a unique perspective that can co-relate with another's view point or it may not.
This gives them a sense of facing the same enemy, of having the same problems, of dealing with similar situations, and thus it gives them the confidence of having others sailing in the same boat as themselves.
How then can we call such people lonely?

There will always be a set of people who follow the same principles and ideals as you do. Even in politics, there is a definite distinction between democrats and republicans, but they are all politicians at the end of the day. Their ideologies differ, but their actions cannot.
Just sitting quietly for some time can make us aware of the various activities being carried out outside and can bring us closer to otherwise unheard creatures in our surrounding which we have made a habit of taking for granted.
They are all existing in our very own sphere of influence. 
How can we be alone, when there is so much we have left, unconsidered and unaware?

As a race, humans are too evolved to ever truly be alone.
Our minds are extraordinary gifts to us which can create thoughts beyond anybody's wildest imaginations. 
You could look at it as your own personal source of entertainment.
Our thought are our companions in our best and worst times.
It is up to us whether to listen to them and to implement them or not.
We have been gifted the power of thinking. This ability of ours should be reason enough to feel a sense of belonging amongst our kind. 

Also, we have a lot of exemplary authors to thank for some of the most memorable characters we can ever come across.
Some of the most revered characters have been fictional. Almost all of us have shared 'five best friends' which were Enid Blyton's own.
It is this familiarity and awareness which acts as a common thread in bringing people together.
Books are actually windows to a universe parallel to our reality. They will never cease to surprise and are our most trusted sources of knowledge. 
The kind of knowledge people want will vary, but their search should not.
We are all unique individuals. Our destinations will be different, but the journey that we embark upon is not one we take alone.
It is this drive that brings us together, a drive for a better and brighter tomorrow for us. 

So are we really alone, or is it society that has labelled us as being alone?
The question will always be 'Are we truly alone?'.
A peaceful stare at the late night sky, or a good hard look at our life as we know it will give us the answer.

We are not alone. We cannot be.
Because somewhere out there, there is someone like us, writing a story for people like ourself.
It is our job to go and find it.
